---
title: how to write fast code - Module 4
date: 2017-04-06 10:39:54
categories: STUDY
tags: how to write fast code
---
### M4-1
#### Why Distrivuted Computing?

<!--more-->

Using distributed systems to solve computational problems on Big Data. Vast repositories of data exist and are growing daily. Problem is divided onto many tasks, each of which is solved by one or more computers. 

#### How common are failures in Large Scale Distributed Computing?

In large-scale distributed computing, faliure is ensured.

#### How are failures handled in HADOOP?

- Fail-safe Storage: By default stores 3 separate copies of each block
- Fail-safe Task Management: Failed tasks re-scheduled up to 4 times.

#### What is MapReduce?

- A programming model
	- Inspired by functional programming
	- Model to express distributed computations on massive amounts of data
- An execution framework
	- Designed for large-scale data processiong
	- Designed to run on clusters of commodity hardware

#### When developing a MapReduce application what components and functions need to be defined?

- components: MapReduce & HDFS
- functions:
	- Map: map operation
	- Reduce: fold operation
	- HDFS I/O
	- HDFS Replication

#### How are data bottlenecks reduced in HDFS?

Data is never moved through the NameNode->no bottleneck

#### What are the advantages of Cloud Computing?

- Illusion of infinite computing resources on demand
- Elimination of an up-front commitment by user
- Ability to pay for use of computing resources on a short-term basis as needed
	- Lowering entry barrier for large scale computing: Removing equipment fixed cost
	- Making available economy-of-scale: Reducing operation variable cost
 